GEORGETOWN, Guyana – The Guyana government Monday said that Venezuelan migrants can access medical services following weekend media reports showing the migrants, who at apparently had entered the country through the Port of Kaituma, east of here, in poor health and in need of food. Venezuelan migrants seeking medical treatment at Port KaitumaHealth Minister Dr. Frank Anthony, speaking at the daily COVID-19 Update, said that the migrants could access services at the Port Kaituma District Hospital. He said people from the community have been identified to liaise with the regional health officers and the hospital to access the services. “If they have any medical challenges, they will be able to sort them out very quickly. They don’t have to wait on an intervention like this. They now have a systematic way if they have any problems that they can come to the Port Kaituma hospital and get access to medical service.” In a statement on Saturday, the government said that it remains mindful of its humanitarian obligations to migrants and has been actively engaged in sustained efforts to deliver food and medical relief across the regions where migration into Guyana is taking place. “Further, the Government remains committed to the humane management of the migrant situation stemming from the economic and social instability in neighboring Venezuela, with the active support of local stakeholders and our international partners.” A government statement said that at least 198 people, representing 25 families have settled in the area, located approximately 15 minutes from Port Kaituma. It said that a medical team examined 20 children last Saturday. The children were treated for skin rashes, upper respiratory and diarrheal diseases and Dr. Anthony said that four children were taken to the Port Kaituma Regional Hospital for further medical treatment.  The Health Minister said that in addition to providing healthcare services, measures are being put in place to ensure that the migrants are living in a clean and sanitary environment. “So, because of the unhygienic conditions, they’re using the same water from the river and they’re using the river to wash and do other things there. “So, the water is not of good quality and what we were able to do on Sunday, we gave them some what is called jerry cans which have filters in them so when they take the water from the river, they can do some level of filtration … which will help to purify the contaminated water, making it better for them to drink and which will prevent some of the diarrheal disease that they are experiencing,” Dr. Anthony said. He said in addition to that, a senior health environmental officer would have explained to them how to dispose of their garbage and to work with them to find an area next to the community where they can dispose of their garbage. “We also worked with them to find a suitable area where they can set up toilets and so forth so that they are not defecating in the same water that they’re using to drink.” Mosquito nets for hammocks will also be distributed to the migrants, so that they may have some protection from vector borne diseases. Additionally, the Civil Defense Commission (CDC) has distributed hampers containing essential items and food. “The Government of Guyana remains committed to the humane management of the migrant situation stemming from the socio-economic situation in neighboring Venezuela,” the government statement noted.