GENEVA, Switzerland – The United Nations Refugee Agency (UNHCR) on Friday expressed deep concern about the status quo of indigenous Venezuelan refugees in Guyana, calling on the international community for more humanitarian presence and support for them. Guyana hosts an estimated 23,000 Venezuelan refugees and migrants who have fled widespread lack of basic items and insecurity. (UNHCR/Diana Diaz)Speaking with journalists in Geneva, Philippa Candler, UNHCR’s Multi-Country Office Representative in Panama, said “one meal a day, no shelter, and no drinking water are only some of the difficult living conditions that indigenous Warao families from Venezuela are facing in remote locations across Guyana.” An estimated 24,500 refugees and migrants from Venezuela are living in Guyana, including some 2,500 indigenous Warao. Some have settled in hard-to-reach areas near the Venezuelan border and others in or around the towns of Mabaruma and Port Kaituma. Since early 2020,  some 250 Warao also found refuge in Anabisi in northern Guyana, and that more than half of this group are children. According to UNHCR, these communities have limited access to services, adding that the delivery of aid is impeded by remoteness, lack of transport infrastructure and distances. “Assessments conducted in October and November show mounting needs, aggravated by the economic downturn caused by the COVID-19 pandemic,” UNHCR said. “Most Warao people have only one meal a day or less,” it added. “Without formal job opportunities, many are begging, working odd jobs, often in exchange for food, selling handicrafts or depending on humanitarian assistance. “Moreover, most families do not have access to drinking water, relying instead on rivers for drinking, bathing and defecation,” continued UNHCR, stating that, last week, it received reports that one Warao child from the Anabisi community died, and several others were hospitalized, reportedly due to malnutrition and diseases related to poor sanitation conditions. Some have since been discharged. Since 2019, the agency said it has worked with partners to distribute material assistance, provide shelter and support access to education services to refugees, migrants and members of the host communities. UNHCR said it also provides counselling, interpretation services and facilitates the refugees’ access to government services, including health programs and vaccination against COVID-19. Additionally, UNHCR said it is currently delivering food hampers, solar lamps, mosquito nets, water purification tablets provided by the Guyanese Civil Defense Commission and other basic relief items to some 400 indigenous Warao from Venezuela. The refugee agency said it works across 17 countries to respond to the plight of five million Venezuelan refugees and migrants hosted in Latin America and the Caribbean. To date, the Refugee and Migrant Response Plan to meet the needs of the Venezuelan refugees and migrants and their host communities is only 43.6 per cent funded, UNHCR lamented, adding that the appeal for next year will be launched on December 9.