Miami, Florida – Miami Dade College (MDC) was recently awarded a $25,000 grant from TD Bank, America's Most Convenient Bank®, to increase the number of women and minority students in the Tesla START program, an intensive 16-week electric vehicle service training program designed to provide students with the skills for a successful career as electrical vehicle technician. "We are very grateful for TD Bank's support to increase the number of minorities in the Tesla START program,” said Antonio Delgado, MDC Vice President of Innovation and Tech Partnerships. “This scholarship will encourage more women and minorities to apply for the electric vehicle technician program." Housed at the West Campus, students develop technical expertise through a blended approach of in-class theory, hands-on labs and self-paced learning. Students are paid a stipend while in the program. Upon successful completion of the program, graduates have the certification necessary for job placement as service technicians at one of Tesla's Service Centers across the country, including South Florida. "These scholarships will not only develop desired skills in a growing field, but also help make the transition to a low-carbon economy," said Felipe Basulto, Retail Market President, Florida at TD Bank. "We are thrilled to support a program that supports workforce development and equitable opportunities for women and minorities, drives economic growth and ultimately creates a more vibrant planet for all of us." TD's funding will be used to cover the cost of tuition for ten students during the 2021-22 school year. There will be specific emphasis on outreach efforts to recruit female and minority students, particularly Black students, who are underrepresented in this field of work. The grant was awarded in support of the Vibrant Planet pillar of the TD Ready Commitment, TD Bank's corporate citizenship platform, that targets $775 million by 2030 in community giving in four areas that support the changes necessary to create a more inclusive and sustainable tomorrow.  The TD Ready Commitment’s Vibrant Planet pillar and Low-Carbon Economy initiative work to enhance green spaces, target $75 billion to help support clean economic growth and a low-carbon economy by targeting net-zero emissions by 2050. To apply and for more information about the Tesla START program at MDC visit https://www.mdc.edu/tesla/.