ST. JOHN’S, Antigua – Antigua Cruise Port (ACP) Wednesday announced that it will begin its multi-million planned development project by April next, creating an ultramodern waterfront day club featuring several pools, a state-of-the-art casino, local food-and-beverage outlets, and approximately 70 to 100 retail spaces for local entrepreneurs The US$25 million project part of the Antigua Cruise Port Development Project under a 30-year lease agreement between the Antigua and Barbuda government and Global Ports Holding (GPH), described as the world’s largest cruise port operator with an established presence in the Caribbean, Mediterranean, Asia-Pacific regions. “The day club will add a signature experience to the downtown core and serve as a creative center for locals and passengers to connect in a way that takes the passenger experience to new heights,” said Dona Regis-Prosper, ACP’s general manager. “Being able to connect with entrepreneurs and artists in the new retail spaces will educate visitors about Antigua and Barbuda’s culture and inspire them to return. These kinds of personal connections, coupled with local food and beverages, our incredible weather, and commitment to guest service, will make this feature an irresistible stop for passengers who want to experience something a little more unique when booking a cruise vacation.” Tourism & Investment Minister, Charles Fernandez, said the Heritage Quay upgrades have been a longstanding concern for the present administration, “so we are pleased that GPH Antigua is undertaking these works as promised. “We are also very excited about the construction of the $25 million day club, which will bring significant opportunity to the country by creating hundreds of jobs and long-term business opportunities for Antiguans & Barbudans.” He said the government will also upgrade nearby surrounding lanes and that overall construction of the waterfront project is scheduled to be completed by July 2023. “We’ve emphasized to the GPH Antigua team that there is no time to waste in delivering these benefits to the people of Antigua and Barbuda, and they have heard the call. “The Government of Antigua and Barbuda is excited about this partnership with GPH Antigua and the future of Antigua Cruise Port. We believe that this will be the beginning of a new renaissance of increased tourism and economic improvement in the country for this generation and beyond. This will be a phenomenal investment in our future,” he said. Regis-Prosper said that before the expansion begins, “we will host consultative meetings with stakeholders who are directly impacted by the project to ensure that this development positively impacts our community”.