KINGSTON, Jamaica – An online portal was launched Monday to facilitate fully vaccinated persons who want to buy tickets to attend the Jamaica World Cup qualifying game against the United States at the National Stadium here on November 16. The Government has given approval for 5,000 fully vaccinated spectators to attend the Reggae Boyz game, after initially saying that no fans would be allowed. Minister of Local Government and Rural Development Desmond McKenzie said all the necessary measures to ensure that there is compliance with COVID-19 protocols are being put in place. He said the Events Authorization System will go online on Wednesday at 7 a.m. 5,000 spectators will be allowed at the National Stadium for Jamaica’s World Cup football qualifier against the United States. “No tickets will be allowed to be sold at the National Stadium. This Events Authorization System that has been developed specifically for the purpose will be used to facilitate persons wishing to attend the game at the National Stadium,” McKenzie said at the virtual launch on Monday. “It is on a first-come, first-served basis. There will be no preferential treatment for anybody. Persons who access the app will be allowed the opportunity once they meet the requirements that have been set out. The app is a game changer, and we are anticipating that once this app is rolled out and we have seen the benefits of it, then we will be using this going forward for other events.” McKenzie said he was confident that the Jamaica Football Federation will ensure that “we make this work”. Fully vaccinated persons who wish to attend the match must show proof of their vaccination status. Once that is verified, they will be allowed to purchase tickets. “The first thing is to upload on the system your vaccine card and ID (passport, national ID, driver’s license) and the Ministry of Health & Wellness team will verify the authenticity of the vaccination card, using our online database,” explained Minister of Health and Wellness Dr. Christopher Tufton. “Once the information is verified and approved, the Ministry will pass on this information to the Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development and the Jamaica Football Federation.” Persons will then be able to purchase a ticket to attend the match using the QR code that is generated. “So, you will only purchase the ticket after you have been validated and approved,” Dr. Tufton added. Minister of Culture, Gender, Entertainment and Sport Olivia Grange said the imminent return of football fans inside the National Stadium is a step towards a wider roll-out. “We are using this event to signal a very significant change on how we will manage sporting events going forward. My ministry has been advocating for, and advocating with various sports federations towards the safe resumption of sports in Jamaica and I have had full support from my colleague ministers,” she said. Meantime, Jamaica Football Federation (JFF) President, Michael Ricketts, said the Federation was happy to be a part of the paradigm shift in the sporting landscape of Jamaica. “The JFF is pleased that the first decision that emerged from our meetings and consultations is that 5,000 fully vaccinated paying fans will be allowed into the National Stadium, 1,000 in the grandstand and 4,000 in the bleachers,” he said. Members of the public attending the match must observe the COVID-19 protocols, notably mask-wearing, maintaining a physical distance from others and frequently washing and/or sanitizing hands. The Reggae Boyz full squad for the US match is: Dwayne Blake, Dillon Barnes, Jaedin White, Liam Moore, Adrian Mariappa, Damion Lowe, Kemar Lawrence, Oniel Fisher, Gregory Leigh, Alvas Powell, Anthony Grant, Ravel Morrison, Devon Williams, Lamar Walker, Bobby Reid, Junior Flemmings, Cory Burke, Javon East, Shamar Nicholson, Andre Grey, Michail Antonio, Kemar Roofe and Leon Bailey. The same squad will play El Salvador on November 12 in San Salvador.