NASSAU, PARADISE ISLAND – The award-winning Comfort Suites Paradise Island is extending its popular “4th Night Free” promotion until spring next year. Yasmine Mills-Strachan, Director of Sales of the all-suite property, announced that by extending the promotion until April 30, 2022, travelers have more time to plan for and experience the warm Bahamian hospitality for which Comfort Suites consistently receives impressive reviews. “Given the positive feedback and strong bookings for the current offer, we have decided to lengthen both the booking and travel windows, which means that a fall getaway, a winter escape or a spring sabbatical can become an affordable reality for more warm-weather enthusiasts,” said Mills-Strachan, whose 223-room hotel celebrated its 30th anniversary over the summer. Savings-savvy travelers will receive a fourth night free, excluding taxes and fees, with three paid room nights. In addition to savings on accommodations, the promotion also includes a food and beverage credit that can be used at Crusoe’s Restaurant, Bamboo Lobby Bar and Splash Pool Bar. A food and beverage credit of $100 will be granted to guests who stay at the property for three paid nights. Four or five paid nights entitles guests to a food and beverage credit of $150, and for a stay of six paid nights or more, the food and beverage credit increases to $200. “With our fantastic food and beverage allowance, guests are able to receive credit per room, per stay, based on their length of stay. A stay at Comfort Suites Paradise Island would not be complete without experiencing one of our signature entrées served daily at Crusoe’s Restaurant,” stated Mills-Strachan. Comfort Suites Paradise Island’s guests are entitled to complimentary use of the facilities at neighboring Atlantis Paradise Island Resort, including Aquaventure waterpark, and pool and beach access. A daily complimentary hot à la carte breakfast is available for all guests. Advanced booking of at least one day is required to receive access to Atlantis Aquaventure waterpark. Free Rapid Antigen (COVID-19) Testing is included for all international registered guests for return travel to the United States (excluding gift certificate redemption stays). Additional value-added amenities such as free Wi-Fi and free parking are standard at the family-friendly hotel, along with its popular Kids Stay, Play & Eat Free program, which allows children aged 11 and under to stay free (in a room with an adult) and to eat free with a paying adult at Crusoe’s Restaurant. The booking window for the fourth night free promotion closes on December 20, 2021, and the offer is valid for travel now through April 30, 2022.