NEW YORK, New York – A number of Caribbean candidates who were victorious in June’s Democratic Primary romped to victory Tuesday night in the general elections in the heavily-Democratic New York City. NYC Public Advocate Jumaane Williams during a Get Out the Vote rally in Brooklyn in October. Michael M. Santiago/Getty ImagesNew York City Public Advocate Jumaane Williams, the son of Grenadian immigrants, was re-elected, as well as New York City Council Member Farah Louis, the daughter of Haitian immigrants. Queens Borough President Donovan Richards, who traces his roots to Jamaica, was also re-elected. Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzales, the son of Puerto Ricans, ran unopposed, while Crystal Hudson, the granddaughter of Jamaican immigrants, and Haitian-born Rita Joseph and Mercedes Narcisse were elected to New York City Council for the very first time. “You gave me your trust, and your voice when you put me in this role, and I work every day to live up to that trust, to raise your voice,” Williams, 45, told campaign supporters at a rally in Brooklyn on Tuesday night. “I will never take that for granted, no matter where I go, no matter what I do,” added Williams, who is also eyeing a run for Governor of New York next year. With 92.92 per cent of the precincts reporting, Williams, who describes himself as an activist politician, received 68.47 percent of the votes, defeating Devi Elizabeth Nampiaparampil, running as a Republican and on the Save Our City line, the independent Anthony Herbert and Devin W. Balkind of the Libertarian Party received 1.32 percent.Farah Louis was victorious Tuesday night. (Photo courtesy of Louis’ campaign.) “I pledge to continue to combine activism and legislation to help make our city a truly progressive beacon, and fight for a just and equitable recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic,” said Williams. With the unofficial results, incumbent Richards is enjoying a very handsome lead over his Republican challenger for Queens Borough President. Richards has received 160,081 votes, or 65,8 per cent, with 79.01 per cent reporting to Thomas Zmich’s 83,051 votes, or 34.2 per cent. In the 45th Council District in Brooklyn, Louis won by a landslide, securing 17,933 votes, or 94.3 perent, to Independent Louis Cespedes’ 1,078 votes. “I am thankful to the constituents of Council District 45 for their incredible support and for believing in our vision for the future of our city,” Louis said, adding “we will continue fighting for affordable housing and education to be a right, not a privilege. “We will continue combatting domestic violence and sexual harassment, to leave a bright future for our young women in this city. We envision a system which is both sustainable and long-lasting, and will work hard to deliver.” In the 35th Council District in Brooklyn, Hudson also won by a massive landslide. With 97.78 per cent of precincts reporting, Hudson received 27,330, or 95.1 percent, to Independent Regina Kinsey’s 1,396, or 4.9 percent. In making history as the first openly gay Black woman to be elected to the City Council, Hudson told the Caribbean Media Corporation (CMC) that “this community made me who I am, and I am honored to have the opportunity to represent my neighbors on the City Council. “I’m so grateful for the support of hundreds of volunteers who knocked on doors and connected with voters about our vision for a stronger, more equitable New York, and to every voter who made their voice heard in this election,” Hudson said. In the 40th Council District, which also includes parts of Flatbush and East Flatbush in Brooklyn, school teacher Rita Joseph also registered a landslide victory over her Haitian Republican compatriot Constantine Jean-Pierre. With 88.46 per cent of precincts reporting, Joseph received 18,631 votes, or 93.1 per cent, to Jean-Pierre’s 1,373 votes, or 6.9 per cent. “In the past years, policy decisions have been made for working people, not with us,” Joseph said on Election Day. “I’m running to change that and be your voice.” She also said that “Black Lives Matter, housing is a human right, and every child deserves a world-class education.” With all of the precincts reporting in the 46th Council District in Brooklyn, Registered Nurse Narcisse resoundingly trounced her Republican challenger, Donald Cranston. Narcisse received 15,914 votes, or 62.8 per cent, to Cranston’s 9,408 votes, or 37.2 per cent. Narcisse said she ran for the 46th District “because I believe the Council has failed to ensure safe communities, support small businesses and provide superior educational opportunities – all of which have been worsened by the city’s lacking response to the COVID-19 pandemic.”.