KINGSTON, Jamaica – The Jamaica government has given an indication of its intention to reduce the measures put in place since last year to curb the spread of the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic even as it warned persons campaigning against vaccines will have to deal with the consequences going forward. Prime Minister Andrew Holness (JIS Photo)“The government continues to act in the best interest to preserve lives and to preserve livelihoods as best as possible. We are being very cautious in reopening, and just to be clear, we are not going to shut down again,” Prime Minister Andrew Holness said in a statement in Parliament. “The government will ultimately have no choice but to allocate a finite set of resources to managing COVID-19-related hospitalizations, including a fixed number of beds. We cannot continue to dedicate virtually the entire capacity of the health system to dealing only with COVID-19 to the detriment of other health system users,” Holness said. Jamaica has recorded 2, 331 deaths and 90, 341 positive cases linked to the virus since March last year and Holness told legislators late Tuesday that it was unfair to many Jamaicans who have been waiting to undergo surgery for other types of chronic illnesses have had to suffer because of the number of bed spaces occupied by persons who contracted the virus. Announcing a relaxation in some measures under the Disaster Risk Management Act (DRMA), Holness said his government had no plans to lock down the country again, noting that schools were being reopened and instructions given to follow the COVID-19 protocols. “We are not going to close the schools again, so we are gradually opening up,” he said, announcing also that fully vaccinated travelers who obtain a PCR test, no older than 72 hours, as their pre-test prior to travel will no longer be required to conduct another PCR test after arrival in order to be released from quarantine. Holness, who said that the new measure would come into effect on Thursday, noted that while antigen tests are still acceptable from travelers, if vaccinated travelers do an antigen test they would still be required to either quarantine for eight days or do a PCR test on their arrival in Jamaica to be released from quarantine. He said the pre-testing requirement for people travelling to Jamaica to present a negative COVID test within three days prior to travel remains in place. Both PCR and antigen tests are permissible. The previous travel protocols for vaccinated persons required them to quarantine for eight days following their arrival in Jamaica or to take a PCR test after their arrival in Jamaica at their own expense to be released from quarantine. Unvaccinated travelers are still required to quarantine for 14 days. Prime Minister Holness also criticized people whom he said were being led by false prophets discouraging people from taking the vaccines “so much so that it is creating social discontent and creating perverse choices and behaviors. “As we move into the post-COVID phase and we remove the measures that have kept you safe, you will have to make decisions about your health,” he said, telling legislators that “my conscience is clear on the vaccination matter. “I have gone the length and breadth. I have preached the word. It is now for the people to make their decision,” he said, urging people to get vaccinated. “For those of us who have the view that they will never be infected, that is not a view that has much wisdom behind it. It is going to be with us and most of us will become exposed to it,” he told lawmakers. Meanwhile, the government has also announced a slight ease in the curfew hours from Thursday until December 9. The curfew will now run from 9.00 pm to 5.00 am (local time) At present, it starts at 8 p.m. Places of worship have received a reprieve, with attendance numbers increasing from 50 to 100 based on social-distancing protocols and capacity. The number of people who can attend weddings has also increased from 50 to 100.