NEW YORK, New York – Caribbean American New York City Public Advocate, Jumaane D. Williams, has officially announced his candidacy for Governor of New York State. New York City Public Advocate, Jumaane Williams. (Photo by Dean Moses)Williams’ announcement comes after a seven-week exploratory phase, during which the son of Grenadian immigrants visited and spoke with communities from Long Island and Brooklyn to Rochester and Buffalo, among other places. “I’ve spent my life fighting for and creating change on behalf of the people, in the streets and in the halls of government, “said Williams in announcing his decision. “Public service is about meeting people where they are and delivering what they need. In this moment, I believe we need bold, principled progressive leadership in Albany (New York State capital) to move our state forward with justice and equity, no matter the political winds. “I’m honored to announce my candidacy to be the next Governor of New York, humbled by this opportunity to empower the people and renew New York, and excited to share my vision of structural change with communities all across the state I love.” In a video announcing his candidacy, Williams spoke about his time growing up in Brooklyn with Tourette Syndrome and ADHD, his time as an organizer, and how he has incorporated that work into a decade of service as an elected official. ADHD is a chronic condition including attention difficulty, hyperactivity, and impulsiveness. ADHD often begins in childhood and can persist into adulthood. In the video, Williams also highlights “the need for creative progressive leadership for New York to move forward, to solve long standing issues faced by New Yorkers and perpetuated by the current entrenched systems. “Right now, our state needs to move forward – from a pandemic, from an era of scandal, and from old ways of governing that have failed so many for so long. For over a decade in office I’ve shaken things up while passing nearly seventy laws on behalf of the people and more than any Public Advocate in history. “As I move around our state, I can see that we all want similar things, face similar obstacles, struggle against the same entrenched systems. I’ve never been one to sit still. When I see injustice or inertia, I’m moved to action.” Williams has been Public Advocate, the second-highest ranking elected official in New York City, since 2019. Prior to becoming Public Advocate, he served for over nine years in the New York City Council. In 2018, Williams mounted a progressive insurgent primary campaign for Lieutenant Governor of New York State while a New York City Council Member, winning a majority in New York City and garnering 47 percent of the vote state-wide. Current New York State Governor Kathy Hochul was the incumbent Lieutenant Governor at the time. Williams has also served as director of a state-wide housing justice organization, and has continued to work to unite communities across the state to solve shared issues and pursue shared goals. Since becoming Public Advocate, Williams said he has passed more legislation than any of his predecessors throughout their tenure, ranging from protecting affordable housing and promoting racial equity in development to codifying the right to record police activity. In his time in public office, he said he has passed 68 bills into law, including legislation to curb the abuses of stop and frisk, to ban the box on job applications, to promote sustainable infrastructure, and to protect against discrimination on the basis of reproductive health decisions. Williams’ areas of focus throughout his time in public service have included housing affordability and housing justice, public safety, gun violence prevention, and racial and economic equity. Besides Hochul, Williams will compete with New York State Attorney General Letitia James for Governor of New York States in next year’s Democratic Primary in June. Reports indicate that current New York City Mayor Bill DeBlasio, who demits office in January, because of the city’s term limit law, may also enter the governor’s race. To date, the mayor has declined to comment on his prospective plans.