GEORGETOWN, Guyana – Guyana has praised global oil companies, including the US giant, ExxonMobil, for committing to the Paris Climate agreement that is aimed at substantially reducing global greenhouse gas emissions in an effort to limit the global temperature increase in this century Prime Minister Mark Phillips addressing the opening of Champion X storage facilityPrime Minister, retired Brigadier Mark Phillips, addressing the opening ceremony for Champion X’s new storage facility at McDoom, East Bank Demerara, said “in a world where climate change threatens our very existence, we are responsible for shaping our future in a sustainable manner. In the oil and gas industry, that means the sensible and responsible usage of oil and gas. “We are, therefore, grateful for pledges by the largest oil and gas companies in the world, including ExxonMobil, who have committed to reducing emissions through the development of low emissions technology from operations under their control in keeping with the timeframe set out by the Paris Agreement,” Phillips said. The Paris Climate Agreement adopted in the French capital on December 12, 2015, is a legally binding treaty between nations of the world, committing to action on climate change. Guyana is a party to the pact. While the United States had initially signed on to the agreement, former President, Donald Trump withdrew the country from the historic pact in 2020. But President Joseph Biden signed an instrument formally recommitting the country to the Paris Climate Agreement and ExxonMobil commended Washington for re-joining the agreement. Champions X, through its president and chief executive officer, Soma Somasundaram, said the company’s operations are to be managed in a safe and efficient manner. The government has committed to instituting a diverse energy mix of renewable energy sources and natural gas, guaranteed to significantly reduce Guyana’s emissions and ensure Guyana’s sustainable development. “Guyana is on the brink of transformational development, and it will take every effort and all of our resources to effectively manage this development so that the country can thrive for generations to come,” Phillips said.