WASHINGTON, D.C. – United States Congresswoman, Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, has sought to emphasize the importance of providing pathways to citizenship for Haitians and other residents with Temporary Protected Status (TPS) through the reconciliation process. “Over the past month, I have heard from countless constituents who are in the US under Temporary Protected Status,” said Ocasio-Cortez, who represents New York’s 14th District, with more than 650,000 people. “I have the privilege of calling these individuals constituents entirely, thanks to their courage and determination in risking their lives to escape treacherous conditions of environmental disasters, violence and corruption back home. There are more than 40,800 TPS holders in New York. Today, the US is their only refuge and their only home.” Besides Haiti, Ocasio-Cortez said many of her constituents hail from, other TPS recipient countries, such as Nepal, El Salvador, Honduras and Sudan. “While TPS has allowed them to stay in the US, it has also put their lives perpetually in limbo, as TPS holders must wait every few months to find out if the program has been renewed,” she said. “This month, Congress has a once-in-a-generation opportunity to establish pathways to citizenship and finally provide these individuals — along with Dreamers, farm workers, and essential workers — the stability they deserve. “It is the least we can do, given our country’s direct contributions to the climate and governance disasters many of them are fleeing,” she added. Last Thursday, the Joe Biden administration announced the automatic extension of TPS designation for Haiti, El Salvador, Honduras, Nepal, Nicaragua and Sudan. “TPS beneficiaries from these six countries will retain their status, provided they continue to meet all the individual requirements for TPS eligibility,” said Department of Homeland Security (DPS) said in a statement. It said that he automatic extension of TPS-related documentation includes Employment Authorization Documents (EADs) through December 31, 2022.