NEW YORK, New York – Guyana’s President Irfaan Ali used the global platform of the United Nations General Assembly on Thursday to raise the issue of his country’s border row with neighboring Venezuela, saying the dispute remains a threat to Guyana’s territorial integrity and sovereignty. Guyana’s President Irfaan Ali speaking at the UN General AssemblyHe told world leaders that while the government welcomes efforts to bring about domestic harmony within Venezuela, agreements that defy international law and processes must not be the basis for mediating such harmony. “Guyana cannot be used as an altar of sacrifice for the settlement of Venezuela’s internal political differences,” Ali stated. “Just recently, an agreement was issued in Mexico City by which the contending internal factions in Venezuela renewed a baseless claim to two-thirds of Guyana’s territory. We have responded in clear terms. And I repeat, our response now in these hallowed halls in which nations of the world meet in peace and cooperation.” Stating that Guyana does not promote the use of violence or threats to settle disputes, President Ali reminded that in a 1966 Agreement signed in Geneva, Venezuela consented to allow the UN Secretary-General to decide on the means of settlement of this controversy. “The Secretary-General decided on the International Court of Justice (ICJ). Both Parties are therefore bound by the Court’s jurisdiction and ultimate decision,” he asserted. The ICJ on December 18, 2020 ruled that it has jurisdiction to hear the case brought by Guyana concerning the validity of the 1899 Arbitral Award against Venezuela’s claims that the Award was null and void. Venezuela is claiming 70 per cent of Guyana’s lands in the Essequibo. The land being claimed by the Bolivarian state also covers Guyana’s Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) into the lucrative Stabroek Block. The ruling of the ICJ now allows the Court to proceed to hear the merits of the case. It will decide and judge the matter, which could result in the permanent fixture of Guyana’s established boundary with Venezuela.