NASSAU, Bahamas – The newly appointed Tourism Minister, Chester Cooper, Monday said he is “committed to creating jobs and opportunities for all Bahamians” as the country joined the global community in observing the 41st annual World Tourism Day. Tourism Minister Chester Cooper. Photo taken from Bahamas National.In a message marking the occasion, Cooper, who was sworn in last week as a minister following the general election, said like many Caribbean destinations, tourism is the heartbeat of The Bahamas and “as we say, it is everyone’s business. “Our beaches are breath-taking, and the water is so clear you can see it from space, but that is not what defines us. Rather, it is every individual person who shapes the Bahamas experience and stands to benefit from tourism’s success. I am committed to creating jobs and opportunities for all Bahamians and to help our great nation heal,” Cooper said. He said after a year and a half of facing an unprecedented global pandemic, the Bahamas Ministry of Tourism, Investments & Aviation remains steadfast in its efforts to provide opportunities and resources to Bahamians across every island and cay to reap the benefits of tourism and is committed to achieving a bright future for The Bahamas and the Caribbean region. “As international travel restrictions begin to ease, spurred by an increase in vaccine accessibility, The Bahamas is well positioned for continued recovery,” Cooper said, adding that a rise in scheduled airlift combined with the return of the cruise industry is contributing to a positive increase in visitor numbers, leading to nearly 500,000 visitors over the first six months of the year. “While we have faced an uphill battle during these unprecedented times, we must stay focused and optimistic as the world begins to re-open. Cooper, who is also the Deputy Prime Minister, said he was joining with leaders throughout the Caribbean to elevate the importance of social inclusion, sustainability and smart destinations and businesses. “Our beautiful country, and our beloved Caribbean region, will prosper again and continue to progress, as in the words of the motto of The Bahamas:  Forward, Upward, Onward, Together,” he added. World Tourism Day is being observed under the theme “Tourism for Inclusive Growth”.