Miami, Florida – The Miami Brickell Chamber of Commerce will present the Brickell Wine and Food Festival (BrickellWFF) press conference, taking place at CH'I Restaurant located in the Brickell City Centre, Address 701 S. Miami Ave. 3rd floor on Thursday, September 30th, 2021 at 10 am and featuring the Designation of the Honorable City of Miami Mayor Francis X. Suarez as the “Grand Chef”. Francis Xavier Suarez (born October 6, 1977) is an American attorney and politician serving as the 43rd Mayor of Miami. He was elected on November 7, 2017 with 86 percent of the vote. Suarez is the first Miami-born mayor. He is aregistered Republican, but the office of the City of Miami Mayor is nonpartisan. He previously served as City of Miami Commissioner for District 4, a position he held since he was elected in a runoff election on November 17, 2009. Suarez is the son of former Miami Mayor and former Miami-Dade County Commissioner Xavier Suarez. His bold and clear vision is to provide opportunities for all who call Miami home, along with an excellent quality of life which includes safety, are the foundation of his administration. Stephen Gamson, is a renowned multimedia American Pop Artist with a unique style easily recognized for bold colors, iconic symbols and mass appeal. His art has been featured at Art Basel Miami Beach, the Scope art fair, the Red Dot art show, Art Miami, and in many solo and group exhibitions internationally, where he is collected by “A” list celebrities and corporations. The Gamson mark has enhanced brands such as Bacardi, Café Bustelo, Lamborghini, Brera Orologi, and Fisker Automotive. Stephen Gamson has been honored as the official Artist for the Monaco Grand Prix, the Sony Open, Miami Beach Polo, ING Miami Marathon, the Necker Cup, Miami Beach Festival of the Arts, the Bacardi Cup, Sarasota Polo, the City of Miami's Birthday Celebration and many others. In addition his artwork has made a positive impact through charitable causes. Gamson works from his Miami studio and gets much of his influence from it's multi cultural and vibrant surroundings.The Miami Brickell Chamber of Commerce is proud to bring The Brickell Wine and Food Festival for the first time to be held in the Brickell neighborhood in the City of Miami on the dates of November 17-21, 2021. The BrickellWFF press conference will serve three purposes: Join the Miami Brickell Chamber of Commerce as they launch the Inaugural Brickell  Wine & Food Festival (BrickellWFF) event press conference with artist Stephen Gamson  to unveil the Official BrickellWFF Poster & Art. “Mayor Francis X. Suarez embodies everything that the City of Miami represents,  family & cultural diversity, amazing culinary fusion and the welcoming environment  for all to enjoy an excellent quality of life"- says Evelio Medina, President/CEO Miami  Brickell Chamber of Commerce and Founder of the BrickellWFF. @mayorofmiami