NASSAU, Bahamas – The University of The Bahamas (UB) and the University of Guelph (UGuelph) have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) governing a student and faculty exchange relationship.  The agreement extends to December, 31, 2026. University of Bahamas (File Photo)The UB said that under the agreement, its students, who are approved may study or conduct research for up to one academic year at UGuelph’s Ontario campus and vice versa. The academic credits will be transferrable. Faculty may also participate in the exchange arrangement under the pact. “In a global society, international experiences and exposure is fundamental in the higher education environment when it comes to the education that students receive. It is also a key pillar in UB’s strategic priorities,” the UB said in the statement. “We are excited for this new partnership with University of Guelph in which our students have the opportunity to study and conduct research in a new environment,” said Vice President of Academic Affairs Dr. Maria Oriakhi, noting that studying at UB no longer means that students lack exposure to global experiences and engagement. “This will broaden their cross-cultural competencies and allow our UB students to be better equipped to meet the challenges of an increasingly interdependent global society.” UGuelph said its commitment to global citizenship is enshrined in its strategic framework. Internationalization is an integral part of the commitment to learner-centeredness; it involves bringing the world to Guelph and opening up international opportunities, according to the institution. According to the agreement, the academic program of each exchange student, be it research or course work, will be determined by agreement between UB and UGuelph and the exchange student. Transfer of academic credit earned at the student’s host institution will be done in accordance with the procedures of the home institution. “Once an Exchange Student has completed his/her participation in the exchange, the host institution will provide an official grade report or transcript for the exchange student directly to the home institution based on the student’s written consent.” The MOU with UGuelph is one of nine that UB has signed with institutions of higher education around the world in the past academic year, and one of two solidified recently with Canada-based institutions. The other is with Brock University in Ontario, Canada.