NEW YORK, New York - The Bermuda Tourism Authority welcomes the first significant loosening of COVID-19 border protocols since the island reopened in July 2020. Rapid antigen testing has been added as an approved option for pre-arrival testing of vaccinated Bermuda-bound travelers effective December 3, 2021. L.F. Wade International Airport in St. George's, Bermuda (photo courtesy of Aecon)The Bermuda Government will require that the rapid antigen tests be observed and certified by a laboratory, health care entity or telehealth service for negative results to be valid for travel to Bermuda. Improved technology, shortened results windows, and widespread availability of rapid antigen tests are expected to simplify the pre-arrival planning process for prospective travelers, making it a safe and convenient option for visitors. Bermuda Tourism Authority CEO Charles H. Jeffers II said, “The shift in protocols is welcome news for Bermuda visitors. With increased vaccination uptake in our key markets, vacation-starved travelers have been shopping for their next destination. This move by the Bermuda Government puts us in a stronger market position as we compete with rival destinations touting less stringent travel requirements. To ensure that we remain a viable and attractive destination for our cruise and airline partners, we must demonstrate that our health and safety protocols meet consumer demand for a safe, streamlined travel experience from beginning to end.” Vaccinated visitors represent less than one percent of those testing positive in Bermuda (on arrival or post-arrival). In a move that reflects the low risk posed by vaccinated travelers to the island, the Ministry of Health has announced that those visiting Bermuda for seven days or less will not be required to undergo follow-up testing while on-island. The Bermuda Government will facilitate outbound testing for visitors according to the requirements of their return destination. All travelers to Bermuda, are still required to undergo a PCR test upon arrival.