ROSEAU, Dominica – Dominica Wednesday welcomed the inaugural American Airlines direct flight from Miami with Prime Minister Roosevelt Skerrit describing the occasion as a “game changer” for the socio-economic future of the Nature Isle. Inaugural American Airlines flight landing in Dominica (CMC Photo)The American Airlines flight 3579 with 72 passengers landed at the Douglas Charles Airport to a welcoming ceremony that also included the US Ambassador to Dominica, Linda Swartz Taglialatela. Skerrit said the fact that even before commencing operations, American Airlines took the decision to increase scheduled flights into Dominica from twice to three times a week, “is a clear indication to us that the demand is there, and that the efforts that we are making in developing our tourism industry is bearing fruit” hoping in the near future for a daily schedule between Miami and Dominica. “Today marks an important chapter in the history of Dominica and the development of our nation. This government has set out our vision to modernize and transform Dominica, and we continue to do so block by block,” Skerrit said, noting that a few years ago, the island had introduced night landing to facilitate more visitors. He said American Airlines has prided itself as offering more flights to more destinations in Latin America and the Caribbean than any other airline, “and we are pleased today that Dominica has become one of your newest routes”. Skerrit said that as international travel continues to recover from the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, it has spurred greater interest and desire for people to commune with the great outdoors, and Dominica as the Nature Isle was seeking to capitalize on the situation. He said his administration continues to invest in making Dominica an attractive destination, upgrading the facilities here at the Douglas Charles Airport and ensuring that the necessary infrastructure is in place to guarantee passenger safety, and enhanced visitor experience. “We have adapted our tourism offerings to be able to offer our guests a safe in nature managed experience. This has allowed our visitors to experience the wonders of Dominica in a safe bubble, which has protected them and locals.” In addition, he said Dominica has introduced the Work in Nature (WIN) program, which allows individuals to relocate to Dominica and work remotely for up to 18 months, “wrapped in the calm of our pristine natural environment. “We have also been able to open our borders to cruise ship visitors, who continue to enjoy the sights and sounds of the island within a safety corridor.” Skerrit said that Dominica is on a journey of transformation and that it is investing in new luxury and boutique hotels to give visitors more options. “In addition to three five-star hotels now open in Dominica, three more are currently under construction. We are upgrading our health infrastructure to ensure that nationals and visitors alike have access to quality health care. We continue to improve on the numerous options available for the discerning, adventurous traveller who delights in swimming with our whales, experiencing our spectacular dive sites, hiking in the rainforests, canyoning through our natural gorges, and bathing in beautiful clear rivers, waterfalls and pools.” Skerrit said that his government is forging ahead with the construction of an international airport, which will open up additional opportunities for connections from cities around the world, to Dominica. “We are determined to see this most important project to completion, because we understand the direct linkages between the convenient movement of people, and the growth of tourism, business and trade relations. “Uncomplicated air travel stimulates greater interest in a destination, and importantly leads to economic growth and opportunities, and job creation,’ Skerrit said, adding that the commencement of direct international flights from mainland United States into Dominica “is a game changer for our tourism industry. “We look forward to strengthening the partnership that has been developed thus far with American Airlines, as we collectively work to increase passenger arrivals into Dominica. I offer you our absolute support as you begin operations here. I am confident that all is in place to ensure smooth and reliable service; and we always remain available to you, to facilitate continued efficiency and the provision of quality service to all travelers,’ Skerrit told the welcoming ceremony.