GEORGETOWN, Guyana – Ghana’s Vice President, Dr. Mahamudu Bawumia, Monday held talks with the Vice Chancellor of the University of Guyana (UG), Dr. Paloma Mohamed-Martin, to identify areas where universities of the two countries could collaborate. Vice President of Ghana, Dr. Mahamudu Bawumia (fourth from left) beside University of Guyana Vice-Chancellor Professor Paloma Mohamed – Martins (third from left) posed with other university representatives (DPI Photo)Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation Minister, Hugh Todd, who was also part of the meeting, said the shared history of the two countries will foster strong engagements. He said the united ties of Guyana and Ghana are vital to development. Dr. Bawumia said the two countries, with their similar challenges and prospects, have much to share. “In Guyana, there is a lot of opportunity for us to collaborate on work. We are looking forward to this strategic partnership that’s been built between our two countries. We will look into exchanging ideas; learning from you and you learning from us,” the Vice President said. Among areas open for collaboration are the environment, technology, healthcare, agriculture, infrastructure, and humanities, as well as the oil and gas industry. On the hydrocarbon industry, Ghana has already begun offering support to Guyana on its Natural Resources Fund (NRF) and local content legislation.. “Across the board, we are very looking forward to having some interactions between your and our university. Students building collaboration. We believe that if we get the universities involved then we will bring the countries closer,” said Dr. Bawumia. Dr. Mohammed-Martin said that UG’s focus is on the future of Guyana; making the country resilient and ensuring that resources multiply. “In terms of social engineering, Guyana is a perfect place and model for this. We want to change people through education and training, access, inclusion,” she said. There are 15 national public and 10 technical universities in Ghana.