Port-of-Spain, Trinidad - There’s something very extraordinary that happens when the right people link up. It’s even better when it’s a musical meet-up and the synergy’s so strong that the song speaks volumes, even pre-promo. US based Soca artist, Julius has dropped a bomb, and he’s not alone on the move. He’s roped in Grenada’s Jab King, Tallpree in what can only be described as a nuclear reactor for the 2022 Soca experience. TallpreeA no holds barred kind of approach has undoubtedly produced the ultimate Soca lover’s anthem. What’s interesting is that even with no carnival 2022 announcement made in festival Mecca, Trinidad and Tobago just yet, ambitious artistes like Julius The Artist and Tallpree are pushing ahead. ‘Too Wild’ is pure power. There’s nothing soft about this anthem that’s laced with elements of fervent festival fanaticism, yet set firmly in a melodical chamber that will prove irresistible to any real Soca music lover. A hardcore Jab vibe meets Soca sweetness, and according to Julius, the connection’s always been there. It was merely a matter of time. “The riddim was sent to me by a friend, Rich London- the engineer of a band I was with called Impact 2. We’ve been friends for a long time,” explained the artist. He said the riddim was produced collaboratively by London and fellow producer Slaughter out of Ninja Samurai Productions. “When Rich sent me the riddim, I was captivated by it when I first listened. I got on a phone call with Ziah Music- one of my collaborative songwriters. I also connected with Miche ‘The Producer’ Williams- a female writer and producer, and together we began the process of writing the song,” he said. The song also got the expert attention of Peter ‘Wildfire’ Noel for vocal production and arrangement, since, as Julius put it, “I always like it when my music’s vocals and arrangement sound clear and perfect. Wildfire was a pivotal part of the project,” he admitted, adding that after things initially came together, the idea to add some spice to the vibe of the song, came to him. “I figured the only place we could get that spice was the Spice Isle itself, Grenada” he said happily.  Julius Twenty years of friendship between Tallpree and Julius made the Soca alliance effortless. When the vocals were completed, final mastering expertise was provided by respected producer, Parry Jack and the end result is a powerful single that has the potential to raise the dead in 2022. The new single will be followed up by a music video soon. “This song is the epitome of spirituality, Jab, Soca and Power all combined and brought to life in proper vocal arrangement and lyrical content,” said Julius, noting that the team truly believes this is a special single. The release of the new track was perfectly timed to coincide with the Miami Carnival this past weekend. Ultimately, the carnival calendar ends with Miami annually and new releases begin loading for the season of pandemonium that traditionally lies in wait. Now, it is with bated breath that carnival stakeholders worldwide await word on T&T’s next move, but even if the Greatest Show on Earth is again placed on hold, the music of the Caribbean will stand strong in representation, all thanks to names like Julius The Artist and Tallpree.