ROSEAU, Dominica–Dominica has signed an agreement with the Pakistan based Rawal Institute of Health Sciences(RIHS) to open a university here, the state-owned DBC reported Tuesday. Prime Minister of Dominica Dr. Roosevelt Skerrit during a visit to Islamabad, Pakistan signed an agreement with Rawal Institute of Health Sciences (RIHS) to open Rawal International University Dominica.It said that Prime Minister Roosevelt Skerrit, who recently paid a two-day visit to Pakistan signed an agreement for the establishment of the Rawal International University Dominica. It said that Skerrit and his delegation also visited Rawal College of Medicine and Dentistry at PIES Complex Islamabad and that the event was marked to celebrate the opening of Rawal International University Dominica, a joint venture of Rawal Institute of Health Sciences Islamabad and the Commonwealth of Dominica. DBS said that Skerrit, during his address stated that he had special interest in health education and that Dominica realized the importance of the Rawal International University Dominica. The co-chairperson of the Rawal Institute of Health Sciences, Saleha Kha-qan, highlighted the interest and confidence shown by the Dominican government in this new educational initiative, while the Vice Chancellor of Shaheed Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto Medical University Islamabad Professor Dr Tanwir Khaliq highlighted the importance of medical education especially in the context of pandemic like Covid-19. “In the end, the Chairman Kha-qan Waheed Khawaja thanked Mr. Skerrit and his delegation for visiting and ensured that with the knowledge, skills and experience his team will succeed in establishing Rawal International University Dominica,” DBS reported. According to its website, the RIHS was established in 2011, according to the rules and regulations of Pakistan Medical & Dental Council (PM&DC). RIHS includes Rawal College of Medicine, Rawal College of Dentistry and Rawal Medical and Dental Hospitals, Rawal Nursing College, Rawal Institute of Rehabilitation Sciences, and Rawal College of D Pharmacy. “The RIHS has plenty to shout about, our alumni employability rate is quite high. The RIHS has a large community with more than 2000 students travelling from all over the country to study here. Currently, we are in the process of receiving online applications for the session 2021-2022,” the website said, noting that “international students are also encouraged to take up the numerous overseas study opportunities”.