DUBAI, UAE – Guyana says EXPO 202O Dubai, the six-month trade exposition here provides it with an opportunity needs to seek investments in the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) country so as to convert “its abundant resources – material and human –   into wealth and into human prosperity”. President Dr. Irfaan Ali being greeted on arrival at the venue of EXPO 2020 Dubai (Photo courtesy DPI).President Dr. Irfaan Ali, addressing the exposition on Tuesday, said the event provides countries such as Guyana with an opportunity to showcase their products and services and to establish connections and synergies with investors and suppliers. “Indeed, the theme of Expo2020 Dubai- ‘Connecting said, adding that Guyana’s theme at Expo2020 is ‘Home of Nature, Land of Opportunities’. Ali said that Guyana is set to become a leading oil and gas producer, an energy powerhouse, a bastion of food security, a prime destination for sustainable tourism and a regional information communications technology hub. “Guyana needs to convert its abundant resources – material and human –   into wealth and thence to translate this wealth into human prosperity.  But in order to do so, Guyana needs investment. “EXPO 2020 provides Guyana with the opportunity to showcase not only its products and services, including its sustainable tourism, but also to underline its investment opportunities in Infrastructure, Housing, Energy, Information and Communications Technology (ICT), Agriculture, Manufacturing and Oil and Gas among others. “We need investment to drive our transformative agenda, and we are keen on attracting investments across all sectors,” Ali said, adding “we have an open economy and with investor-friendly policies in place, including attractive incentive regimes, laws which protect the right to property, and which also allows freedom to repatriate profits”. He told the trade exposition that Guyana is on an irreversible growth trajectory and that “this fact alone should provide comfort to investors that they are entering an economy which is expanding and doing so rapidly. “Guyana is already becoming a beacon for investment. The oil companies are bullish in investing in Guyana. Other companies are following their lead. International companies are lining up to do business with Guyana. “ He said that almost all sectors have the capacity and potential for expansion and that there is no crowding-out of potential investors. “Guyana is the most resource-rich country in the English-speaking Caribbean. If we speak about world food production, environmental services, world-class eco-tourism, freshwater potential, mining opportunities, research and development, human transformation, health and educational services, I assure you Guyana will be an important part of that conversation. “Guyana needs to convert its abundant resources. We need you. We welcome you, and we urge you to remember the name Guyana and to keep the name Guyana in your plans for growth and development, both in country and by businesses and sectors,” said Ali. Guyana is among several Caribbean Community (CARICOM) countries that are participating in the six-month exposition.