ST. GEORGE’S, Grenada –Grenada is welcoming the decision by the operators of two all-inclusive hotels to re-open their properties Friday, saying it is shows confidence that the tourism sector is rebounding from the impact of the coronavirus (COVID19) pandemic. Tourism Minister Dr. Clarice Modeste“These two remarkable resorts will no doubt add immensely to the variety of options in the accommodation sector. This reopening is indeed testimony to the confidence in the resilience of the industry,” Tourism Minister Clarice Modeste said. The two hotels were closed after Grenada shut down its borders in March last year as part of the measures aimed at curbing the spread of the virus that has so far killed 141 people and infected 5,195 others. Chairman of the Grenada Tourism Authority (GTA), Barry Collymore, said that the reopening of the hotels, will have a tremendous impact on the economy. He believes that Spice Island Beach Resort will drive a lot of repeat business while Royalton will open new business for Grenada. “They all, in the end, will be good for tourism, jobs, and all of that but they are going in the right direction,” he added. General Manager of the Spice Island Beach Resort, Brian Hardy, said that the 64 room property on Grand Anse beach on the island’s the southwestern coast, has ensured that “we are a fully vaccinated operation, all visitors and guests, our staff and management, entertainers, everyone who will be on the compound of the property must be fully vaccinated”. The Online Communications Manager for Royalton, Marlon Walker, said the 267 all-inclusive family resort will also be operating as a fully vaccinated facility. The Grenada Hotel and Tourism Association (GHTA) said that it was extremely pleased with the additional 331 rooms. “Having both hotels operating is excellent news for the country as there are many people now in employment and their guests will fill seats on aircraft,” said GHTA president Leo Garbutt. “Also, local suppliers, farmers, fishermen, and others will have orders to fulfill. These hotels operating will stimulate the economy, so it is a winning situation for all,” he added. According to the 2021 mid-year review which was recently tabled in the Houses of Parliament, the tourism sector remains the hardest hit by the COVID-19 pandemic. Data for the first half of 2021 shows that travel was depressed for the first quarter of 2021. However, the second-quarter data showed some improvement as several airlines added flights during that period. From January to June 2021 the number of visitors to the country was 10,027 with 8026 coming from the United States.