London, England - Popular personality Mixmaster J, aka "English General," continues to expand his brand, scoring recently as co-host of the first annual Caribbean Afro Music Awards (CAMA) and performer at the City Splash Festival in London, UK. Mixmaster J "English General" recently rocked the City Splash Festival in London.To much fanfare, Mixmaster J held down his naturally fitting roles, seamlessly. The celebrated September appearances come amidst a bustling online presence of his weekday (M - TH) "Lunchtime Drive" and "Drive Time" shows, which stream on IG, I Live Radio Reggae Global Radio and Heart of Love Radio, respectively. As a first time award show host, Mixmaster J rose to the occasion. The tastemaker thrived alongside stunning co-hosts Janelle Raeburn and Caz Mac, offering great commentary, organic chemistry and a bubbly disposition. The virtual award show aired on Tempo Networks, with great performances making it a standout. "I was asked by CAMA to be a host, as they thought I'd bring a different flavor to the proceedings," says Mixmaster J. "Hosting CAMA was a blessing......I truly felt like I found a new calling.....was very natural." As if the happenings couldn't get hotter for English General, he delivered an exceptional performance at the highly anticipated City Splash Festival, a spectacular event celebrating Reggae music, food and culture. Setting the tone for a stellar show to follow, Mixmaster J wowed the revelers with an eclectic set that skillfully spanned Reggae and Dancehall music over the years. From the moment he dropped a customized dub of the legendary artist Shinehead soulfully crooning "At Last" -- one could clearly see it would be an explosive set. Wildly interactive with the audience, concertgoers felt a bonafide Reggae and Dancehall music experience with Mixmaster J, as they danced to infectious selections from Sizzla, Bounty Killer, Damian "Jr. Gong" Marley -- among notable others. The long awaited City Splash featured riveting performances from the likes of Beenie Man, Lila Ike, Jessie Royal, Dawn Penn and more! "After 18 months of lockdown, this was a great and joyous opportunity to showcase my skills before a crowd of 9,000 people who may or may not know me, " says Mixmaster J. There's no surprise that the Mixmaster J brand is expanding. While he loves candid interviews with high profile guests, premiering new music and entertaining listeners daily, he realizes that he has other gifts, worthy of nurturing.