October is National Bullying Prevention Month, an opportunity to highlight the programs, initiatives and activities Miami-Dade County Public Schools (M-DCPS) utilizes to address bullying and harassment. The foundation for our approach is rooted in the District’s Policy Against Bullying and Harassment.  This comprehensive document contains procedures and guidance related to the prevention and intervention of said behavior, and serves as an important resource for school administrators, faculty, support staff, students and parents. The document includes information on prevention programs, reporting and notification guidelines and investigative procedures. Image taken from Miami-Dade County Public Schools.The heart of our prevention efforts is skill building.  M-DCPS employs a wide variety of social-emotional learning programs, initiatives, and activities that enhance self-awareness, self-management, social awareness, relationship skills, and decision making. These five components are the bedrock for fostering social and emotional wellness and strongly contribute to a successful academic experience. The District’s Bullying/Harassment Prevention curriculum is the primary instructional approach to prevention.  The model serves students in pre-Kindergarten through 12th grade and comprehensively addresses bullying and harassment via classroom lessons and activities designed to reinforce concepts and skills. The Values Matter Miami initiative teaches students the District’s nine core values of respect, responsibility, integrity, kindness, fairness, honesty, cooperation, the pursuit of excellence, and citizenship.  The initiative emphasizes that students have the power to make good choices, demonstrate positive behaviors, and make values matter. The SAFE Network provides students and school employees with the knowledge necessary to build comprehensive and inclusive programs that support all students, including gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender or questioning students. M-DCPS also works with community partners to reinforce conceptual learning. The Anti-Defamation League and the Sandy Hook Promise Foundation are just two of the many organizations that offer programs that help create and sustain inclusive school environments where all students feel valued and connected. As shown, M-DCPS takes student safety and well-being seriously. Our mission is to provide quality prevention programs and best practice intervention techniques to address bullying and harassment at all grade levels. For more information, visit http://studentservices.dadeschools.net/.