The Southern Regional Health Authority (SRHA) which administrates public healthcare in Clarendon, St. Elizabeth and Manchester has received $9 million from J. Wray & Nephew Ltd. to support the fight against the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19). Appleton Estate Distillery Manager, Rohan Robinson (left) presents a cheque of $2 million to the Black River Hospital to assist with its fight against COVID-19. Collecting the cheque on behalf of the hospital are CEO Diana Brown Miller (2nd right), Parish Manager for the St. Elizabeth Health Services, Sean Brissett (right)and Director of Nursing Services, Maria Stampp.The donation is a part of the company’s intervention called JWN Cares and will disperse $45 million to 12 public hospitals across the island, donated through the company’s key brand - White Overproof Rum and its sister company the JWN Foundation. The Mandeville Regional Hospital (MRH) in Manchester received $4 million while $2 million was donated to the May Pen Hospital in Clarendon. The Black River Hospital in St. Elizabeth was given $2 million and the Balaclava and Maggotty Health Centers received $500,000 each. Regional Director for the SRHA, Michael Bent who was on hand to receive the donation for the MRH noted that the Authority is very grateful for the donation. He explained that the monies will be used to purchase small equipment and medical supplies for the facilities as they continue to manage the COVID-19 Pandemic. “The Board of Directors, management teams and staff are very appreciative for the donation which will definitely strengthen the capacity of our health facilities to continue responding to the Pandemic. Our resources are indeed stretched and we welcome all the assistance we receive. Corporate Jamaica has always been assisting healthcare and we are grateful for the continued show of support as the country continues to fight the Pandemic in order to save lives and livelihood. Thank you J. Wray & Nephew” Mr. Bent said. Channel and Customer Marketing Director for J. Wray & Nephew Ltd. Leleika-Dee Barnes explained that the company prides itself in being a part of the solution, as it assists the public health system with the fight against COVID-19. “At J. Wray & Nephew, we are an active part of our communities and it is always our hope that persons will go out and get vaccinated. We are here trying to play our part to be a great corporate citizen to assist our public hospitals in handling the magnitude of patients that are coming in with the virus so we hope that the public adhere to all of the protocols that have been established. We do realize that the protocols are working when used properly so we are imploring everyone to be an active part of helping us to assimilate and overcome this Pandemic” Ms. Barnes said.