MONTEGO BAY, JAMAICA –Sandals Resorts continues its 40th Anniversary celebration with a special, 40-day sale on select Sandals Resorts including the brand’s flagship property, Sandals Montego Bay. Couples booking a stay of seven nights or longer for travel anytime between July 31 and October 2, 2022, will unlock a special room rate of only $200 per person, per night at participating resorts. Sandals Montego Bay“This extraordinary sale will have our travel advisor partners and Sandals Loyalty Guests thinking it’s the ‘80s all over again,” said Gary Sadler, Executive Vice President Sales & Industry Relations for Unique Vacations Inc., an affiliate of the worldwide representatives of Sandals Resorts International. Sandals Resorts 40-Day Anniversary Sale is open for booking for forty days through November 23, 2021 and is available at participating Sandals Resorts including Sandals Montego Bay and Sandals Ochi Beach Resort in Jamaica and Sandals Halcyon Beach Resort in St. Lucia. Sandals 40th Anniversary celebrations will take place across all Sandals Resorts. Guests can hit rewind and experience nostalgic fun with ‘81 inspired pool parties, a new vintage apparel line, reimagined swim-up bar menus, new handcrafted cocktails and much more. Guests will also be able to join the Sandals Foundation and help make a difference in local Caribbean communities through a new 40 for 40 Initiative that will bring 40 additional projects to each island’s local communities. Taking it back to where it all began at Sandals Montego Bay, guests can experience some of the brand’s most iconic features including Swim-Up Suites, overwater bars, Over-the-Water Wedding Chapels and more. Couples who choose to vacation at Sandals Ochi, along the north coast of Jamaica, can enjoy complimentary green fees and transfers to Sandals Golf and Country Club along with 16 different 5-Star Global Gourmet™ dining options.  Guests at Sandals Halcyon Beach Resort can immerse themselves in total relaxation in St. Lucia and float from their room right to the resort’s iconic swim-up pool bar. Whichever resort guests choose to book their “40th Anniversary Special” room with, they’ll be a part of the celebration of 40 years of love and trust. Other terms and restrictions apply.  To book the exclusive 40th Anniversary Sale at select Sandals Resorts, please visit www.sandals.com. To learn more about how Sandals Resorts is celebrating its 40th Anniversary, make sure to visit https://www.sandals.com/celebrating-40-years/.