Social media has expanded the way in which we communicate. At Miami-Dade County Public Schools (M-DCPS), we believe social media can serve an educational purpose and further enhance the learning experience for students. However, embracing this method of communication also means understanding and addressing the potential risks involved. Technology is at our fingertips 24/7, so now more than ever, it’s important to ensure we all, especially students, are behaving appropriately in the digital world. Image taken from MDCPS Twitter.Over the years, with the increase of blended and virtual learning and students spending more time online, digital citizenship has become an increasingly essential component of learning. M-DCPS has continuously added resources to address this important topic, including digital citizenship curriculum software and several professional development opportunities for educators. M-DCPS promotes digital citizenship in our schools all year long. During October, the school district celebrates Digital Citizenship Month and promotes social media responsibility for students, employees, and the community. During this annual observance, M-DCPS goes above and beyond to reiterate the importance of being a responsible digital citizen and convenes its Social Media Student Advisory Committee to gather input from students leaders about how to better reach the student population to promote the responsible use of social media. As digital citizens, our students are encouraged to be image-conscious – that is, to be aware of all the photos and videos they post and are tagged in. Online interactions leave a permanent trail, so it is important to remind students that college recruiters, potential employers, and parents check their social media presence. Anything they post online cannot be erased, even if they delete it. In addition to protecting their image, students are also encouraged to manage their digital identities. A user’s online activity should mirror their personality and how they wish to be perceived; posting certain material, such as hurtful words/images/videos, plagiarized material, or sexually explicit and illegal content, can reflect negatively on their reputation. Instead, teachers emphasize using social media to highlight students’ skills, such as showcasing unique interests, engaging in meaningful conversations, and posting authentic content that will add value to their online presence. Some of the tips M-DCPS is sharing with students include: In our schools, we are committed to teaching students about appropriate social media use and how to fully understand the positive and negative implications of utilizing these tools. In light of recent troubling TikTok challenges, encouraging students to damage school property and harm employees, we ask families to join in our efforts in emphasizing the importance of acting responsibly on social media, keeping our school community safe, and distinguishing reality when things are sometimes not what they seem. Because parents play a pivotal role in a child's education, they must be equipped with the appropriate tools and resources to effectively navigate social media and its continuous evolution. Parents are also encouraged to talk with their children about digital citizenship. M-DCPS’ The Parent Academy hosts various webinars focused on digital literacy and online safety. For information on these webinars, please visit https://parentacademymiami.com/.