KINGSTOWN, St. Vincent – The Secretary General of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM), Dr. Carla Barnett has praised the resilience of the people of St. Vincent and the Grenadines who will celebrate the 42th anniversary of political independence from Britain on Wednesday. In a congratulatory message to Prime Minister Dr. Ralph Gonsalves, the CARICOM top public servant noted that the resilience displayed in overcoming the recent traumatic volcanic eruption in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic is a fine example of the people’s strength of character. Earlier this month, Prime Minister Gonsalves announced that there will be a scale down of activities marking the independence celebrations. He said there will be no military parade and that the decision was taken based on the country’s current coronavirus (COVID-19) situation. “Last year, of course, at this time, though COVID was in the air, the numbers, in terms of infections and deaths, were very small and, of course, we did not have the Delta variant. Cabinet has taken the decision not to have the parade for Independence (this year) at Victoria Park or anywhere else face-to-face because of the situation with COVID,” Gonsalves said. “Accordingly, I will broadcast an address to the nation in the usual way, but I will do so virtually; on television and on the radio.” St. Vincent and the Grenadines has reported 63 deaths and 4,860 positive cases linked to the virus since March last year. In her congratulatory message, the CARICOM Secretary General also expressed the 15-member regional integration grouping’s pride in the election of St. Vincent and the Grenadines to the United Nations Security Council and the leadership exercised during its presidency. She also noted that CARICOM has benefitted greatly from St. Vincent and the Grenadines’ invaluable contribution towards fostering regional integration, especially in fulfilling its responsibility within the CARICOM Quasi-Cabinet for Transportation. “I join with the Caribbean Community, in extending best wishes to the Government and People of St. Vincent and the Grenadines for the country’s continued advancement and well-being”, the Secretary-General said.