NEW YORK, New York – Two Haitian American legislators are urging residents to exercise their right to vote as early voting ends in New York on Sunday ahead of the November 2 general elections. “Whether you cast your vote early, by mail, or on Election Day, it is critical that you get out and vote,” said New York State Assembly Member Rodneyse Bichotte Hermelyn, who is also the chair of the Brooklyn Democratic Party. “Local elections are the foundation of our democracy.  Who governs our city and state will determine the policies that affect us day-to-day, for years to come. “For members of the Caribbean-American community, voting can help sway policies that determine how our country handles immigration, what resources are made available, and to whom,” said Bichotte Hermelyn, who represents the predominantly Caribbean 42nd Assembly District in Brooklyn. “Last year, on the state level, that meant passing an Excluded Workers Fund, which allowed many Caribbean-American families to recover more equitably from the Coronavirus pandemic. Make sure you find time to make your voice heard, and vote with your interests in mind.” Voters will cast ballots for several positions including New York City Mayor, New York City Comptroller, Borough President, Public Advocate, District Attorney and City Council. Council member Farah N. Louis, another Haitian American legislator, said “this year’s election will determine the future of our city, as we fight to ensure an equitable recovery from the pandemic. “And it’s crucial that we all get out to vote,” said the representative for the 45th Council District in Brooklyn. The way that we vote in this election will decide how our city recovers from the COVID-19 pandemic, builds more affordable housing, improves education, and combats gun violence and violent crimes to make our streets safer. “The future of our city depends on all of us, and voting in this election is one way we can all ensure a brighter future. There’s no excuse not to vote with all of the options that are available; and, with early voting happening now, there’s no better time to go to the polls. “With weekend and evening hours, early voting makes it easier than ever to head to the polls in a way that is most convenient for all of us. And for those concerned about social distancing, avoiding Election Day crowds is another advantage. “Early voting gives constituents in our community more options to make their voices heard, and I encourage everyone to take advantage of this opportunity,” Louis added.