NASSAU, Bahamas – Ahead of next month’s scheduled convention of the main opposition Free National Movement (FNM), former Prime Minister Dr Hubert Minnis has again stated that he is not interested in leading the party. In a statement on Friday, Minnis said that he will not allow his name to be placed in nomination when the party hosts a one-day leadership convention on November 27. “At the end of November, the Free National Movement will hold a one-day convention to elect the leader of the party. I will not nominate for the leadership nor will I allow my name to be placed in nomination. I wish those who will contest for the leadership the very best.” Minnis’ statement came amid speculation that although he told FNM executive committee and Central Council members last month that he will step aside as leader, he could still vie for the post if someone nominates him. “I will continue to serve in the House of Assembly as the member of Parliament for Killarney…..As a former prime minister and in whatever role is assigned to me, I will support the work of the Official Opposition to advocate on behalf of the Bahamian people and to hold the government accountable. “It has been an extraordinary privilege to serve our country as prime minister and as a member of Parliament. I thank the Bahamian people and the members of the FNM for their support and encouragement. Following the crushing defeat of the FNM in the polls on September 16th – the chairman of the party, Carl Culmer revealed that the party’s council agreed to let Minnis remain leader of the party until a new leader emerges from the convention in November. Nominations for leader opened on October 19 and will close at 5 p.m. on November 18. Culmer said there will be no nominations entertained on the convention floor, or after the close of nominations on November 18. He said candidates must be nominated by at least two members of the party and must also sign the application form acknowledging that they are willing to run for leader. The party suffered a crippling defeat during the September 16 general election, winning only seven of the 39 seats in the House of Assembly. Minnis called the election eight months before one was constitutionally due.